# ==> Membership constraints
## --> finding inconsistent categories
```py
inconsistent_categories = set(study_data['blood_type']).difference(study_data['blood_type'])
print(inconsistent_categories)
# {'Z+'}

# Get rows w/ inconsistent values
inconsistent_rows = study_data['blood_Type'].isin(inconsistent_categories)
study_data['inconsistent_rows']
```
        birthday   blood_type   name
     5  2019-12-17 Z+           jennifer 
# Members only
- Membership Constraint

      A month column with the value 14.
      A day_of_week column with the value Suntermonday .
      A has_loan column with the value 12.
      A GPA column containing a z- grade.
- Other Constraint

      An age column with values above 130.
      A birthdate column with values in the future.
      A revenue column represented as a string.
# Finding consistency
- Print the categories DataFrame and take a close look at all possible correct categories of the survey columns.
- Print the unique values of the survey columns in airlines using the .unique() method.
```py
# Print categories DataFrame
print(categories)

# Print unique values of survey columns in airlines
print('Cleanliness: ', airlines['cleanliness'].unique(), "\n")
print('Safety: ', airlines['safety'].unique(), "\n")
print('Satisfaction: ', airlines['satisfaction'].unique(), "\n")
```
Question
> Take a look at the output. Out of the cleanliness, safety and satisfaction columns, which one has an inconsistent category and what is it?
- Possible Answers
- [x] cleanliness because it has an Unacceptable category.
- [ ] cleanliness because it has a Terribly dirty category.
- [ ] satisfaction because it has a Very satisfied category.
- [ ] safety because it has a Neutral category.
---
- Create a set out of the cleanliness column in airlines using set() and find the inconsistent category by finding the difference in the cleanliness column of categories.
- Find rows of airlines with a cleanliness value not in categories and print the output
```py
