# 🍎 What is statistics?
- ❓ practice and study of collecting and analyzing data
### 📚 DO? > 
   - how likely is smo to purchase a product
   - more likely if they had different payment system?
   - occupants of a hotel, and how to optimize occupancy?
   - a mean jean size so they fit to a 90% of population
   - which ad is more effective in getting people to purchase a product
### 📚 types of statistics? >
- descriptive statistics :
  - ❓ describes, summarize data  
- inferential statistics :
  - ❓ use sample of data to make inferences ab. a larger population  
### 📚 types of data? >
- **Numeric (Quantitative)** 
  - Continuous (Measured)
    - Airplane speed
    - Time spent waiting in line
  - Discrete (Counted)
    - Number of pets
    - Number of packages shipped
- **Categorical (Qualitative)**
  - Nominal (Unordered)
    - Married/unmarried
    - Country of residence
  - Ordinal (Ordered)
    - [ ] Strongly disagree
    - [ ] Somewhat disagree
    - [ ] Neither agree nor disagree
    - [ ] Somewhat agree
    - [ ] Strongly agree
## 🦍 Descriptive and inferential statistics
- **Descriptive**
   - [ ] Given data on every customer service request made, what's the average
time It took to respond?
   - [ ] Given data on all 100,000 people who viewed an ad, what percent of
people clicked on It?
- **Inferential**
   - [ ] After Interviewing 100 customers, what percent of all your customers a
satisfted with your product?
   - [ ] Glven data on 20 fish caught In a lake, what's the average welght of al
fish In the lake?

## 🦍 Data type classification
- **Continuous numeric**
   - [ ] Alr temperature
   - [ ] Kllowatts of electricity used
- **Discrete numeric**
   - [ ] Number of clicks on an ad
   - [ ] Number of Items In stock
   - [ ] Number of DataCamp courses taken
- **Categorical**
   - [ ] Zip code
   - [ ] Brand of a product
# 🍎 Measures of center
