# ==> Types of reports
- `Informational`
  - Factual information
  - Short
  - Not strict structure
  - Inform about facts
- `Analytical`
  - Analysis (relationships/recommendations)
  - Varies (short or long)
  - Strict structure
  - Data-driven decisions
- `Final report`
  - Elements
    - Data analysis
    - Findings and results
    - Visuals
  - Format
    - Long
  - Audience
    - Details
- `Summary report`
  - Elements
    - Key findings and recommendations
    - Visuals
  - Format
    - Short( 5 pages)
    - Summary of final report
    - Link to main document
  - Audience
    - No need for details
# ==> Report Structure
- `Introduction`
* Purpose
  - Analysis of the product reviews gathered from website
  - Rating prediction based on review
* Contextual information
  - Increase in negative reviews
* Question of analysis
  - Factor affecting bad user experience
- `Body`
  * Data
    - Description and tables
  * Methods
    - NLP and Random Forest
  * Analysis
    - Visuals
    - Graphs with most common words
  * Results
    - Description and visuals
      - 30% negative ratings associated with words "delayed" and "shipping".
- `Conclusions`
  - Restate question
  - Summarize important results
  - Add recommendations
# Something to report
> Order the report sections so that the first section should be on top and the last at the bottom.

    # Purpose
    - The purpose of this report Is to describe the results obtalned from a model
    that predlcts and ldentifes customers that will lkely churn.

    # Data
    - The data, gathered from the website, contalns categorlcal data, such as
    gender, and Internet service. It was converted to elther 0 or 1 columns.

    # Methods
    - The dataset was split Into train (70%) and test (30%) set. A K-Nearest
    Nelghbors model was trained and model performance was evaluated.
    
    # Visuals
    - As you can see In the graph, this reports analyzes the Importance of different
    features such as monthly charges, contract type and phone servlce.
    
    # Results
    - The model has an accuracy of 92% In predicting customer churn. The Internet
    service type and discounts correlates with customer churning.
    
    # Summary
    - In summary, discounts on premlum phone services should be Implemented In
    order to retain customers.
# In summary
> Correctly classify the examples as a feature of either a final or summary report.
- Final report

      - Your report Is about twelve pages long.
      - The report Includes detalled findings and results showing how you
      performed your data analysls.
      - It should be written thinking about an audlence that requlres detalls.
- Summary report

      - Your report Is about four pages long.
      - You might Include a lInk to the malin document In case the stakeholder
        wants to Inspect more detalled content.
      - It should be written thnking about an audlence that doesn't requlre
        detalls.
      - In the results section. you only Included three graphs that simply explat
        the key findings.
# ==> Reproducibility and references
- `keep track of how results were produced`
  - **well documented scripts**
    - Comments in code  
  - **list packages and enviroments used**
  - **version control**
- `avoid manual data manipulation`
  - **data versioning**
  - **store raw data and intermidiate steps**
  - **Adapt and resolve problems**
  - example data imputation:
    - impute missing values w/ mean
    - save and close editor
    - how to know which values were replaced first 
- `control randomness`
  - random seeds for ML pipelines
  - controls cofounding vars
- `interpretability`
  - understand the cause of decision or predict model results
  - Story w/ compelling narrative
  - Link w/ reproducibility
- `cite bibliography correctly`
# Replicate me
***You explain: If the New York team wants to replicate my work, then they should have access to the same ___ and the same ___ I used. However, if they want to achieve ___ , they can use their own set of tools.***
> Fill in the blank spaces by choosing the correct word combination from the options. 
- [ ] data, code, replicability
- [ ] team, code, reproducibility
- [x] data, code, reproducibility
- [ ] team, data, replicability
# Same results
> Correctly classify the statements as best or bad practices.
- Best practice

      - Use a Jupyter notebook, so you can explaln your thought and declslon-
        making process at each step of the analysls.
      - Create an extra fle where you wrtte down the Python packages and
        verslons you use for the analysls.
      - Use a software to handle references so you can correctly clte the sources
        you consult during the project work.
- Bad practice

      - For your machine learning model, do not set the random seed argument
        as It will aways return the same result, ellminating randomness.
      - Erase Intermediate files created from your machine to avold confuston.
      - Before you start analyzing the data, open the dataset In a text editor to
        delete all unwanted columns.
# ==> Write precise and clear reports
`reports must be`
- Concise
- Precise
- Avoid misleading and confusion
- Meaningful message

`empty phrases`

***Contain no information/ distracting***
- It is interesting to note that
- The fact that
- It should be pointed out that
- It is well known that
- It is obvious that

`empty data phrases, examples`
- [x] Negative ratings are associated with the
words "delayed" and "shipping"
- [x] Another important point is the fact that
negative ratings were associated with the
words "delayed" and "shipping"

`use CONCRETE NOUNS, examples`
> avoid "this" , "that", "it"
- [x] The model shows an accuracy of 80% when
predicting customer churn.
# Half-empty glass
Correctly classify the examples as improvable or intelligible versions.
- improvable

      - The results should be Interpreted carefully through the lens of a real-
        estate bubble situation.
      - Mean house price Increases as the number of rooms Increases from
        range 1 to 3. It should be pointed out that prices decrease for more than
        5 rooms.
      - The project had the alm to create a model that can predict the average
        house price In the state of Colorado.
- Intelligible

      - Mean house price Increases as the number of rooms Increases from
        range 1 to 3. For more than 5 rooms, the price decreases.
      - The project pursued the creation of a model that can predict the average
        house price In the state of Colorado.
      - The results should be Interpreted carefully considering the real-estate
        bubble situation.
# Strong words
Correctly classify the examples as either the correct or uncorrected version.
- Improvable

      - I evaluated the classificatlon predictions using a confuslon matrbx. This
        Indicated that the model accuracy was 85%.
      - There Is a posltlve correlation between the number of rooms and the
        price, people with children are wllng to pay more.
      - The data exploration analysts Introduced new features that should be
        Incorporated Into the model.
- Intelligible

      - A confuslon matrix was used to evaluate the classificatlon predictlons.
        The matrix showed a model accuracy of 85%.
      - There Is a positive correlation between the number of rooms and the
        price because people with chlldren are willing to pay more
      - The data exploration analysis Introduced features that should be
        Incorporated Into the model.
# ==> Case study: report on credit risk
`credit risk` : probability of defaulting
# Credit me
You are about to leave the office when you get a call from the operation director. She tells you that you need to write a report on the credit score to present to the advisory board. She explains: "They want to understand your analysis to help plan a strategy to pre-select customers for loans".

Which of the following reports is the most suitable to write in this case?

- [ ] An analytic report including a heatmap with correlation between all predictive variables, technical details about your random forest model, and final recommendations.
- [ ] A short report showing a barplot with the financial risks involved if loans are given to defaulted and not defaulted customers.
- [x] An analytic report with boxplots displaying the relationship between loan and customer traits, and a barplot of most important predictors.
# Report my credit
Order the report sections so that the first section should be on top and the last at the bottom.

Your project manager was very satisfied with your work. Now, it's time to write the ***summary report for the financial department director***. You want her to understand the key findings. Particularly, that the most important features for predicting a loan default are income, age, and employment length.

      - The report pursues the feasiblity of automatizinga loan approval algorthm.
      - The project was motlvated by the Increasing percentage of defaulting
        customers over the last 5 years.
      - Is It posslble to automatize the loan approval to customers with a low
        lIkellhood of default?
      - The data contains the loan detalls about borrowers from Loanme Bank. It was
        gathered over the last 10 years.
      - As you can see In the boxplot, the median age of defaulting customers Is
        lower than the non-defaulting ones.
      - It Is posslble to predict which people Is more llkely to default with an accuracy
        of 95%.
      - If the automatization Is Implemented, the percentage of customers wil
        decrease by 25% next year.
