# ==> Building a presentation
Before Building Slides : ***PLAN***

`Presentation Structure`
- Purpose
  - type of presentation
    - informative
    - Instructional
    - Persuasive 
- Audience
  - Who is the audience
    - tech colleges
    - Managers or executive team
    - Customer
  - How big is the audience
    - 10 members meeting
    - conference     
    - workshop : 30 customers IT employees
- Message
  - central message:(***ONE SENTENCE***) what we want to stick?
  - **Opening statement** : capture attention > 
    - negative ratings scare away customers from website
  - **closing statement** : sums up presentation and central message
    - there is a decrease in sales, negative review have been increasing. Delayed shipping is causing negative ratings. Actions are needed to revert the situation
# Is this the plan?
You need to present your findings on software development sector salaries for San Francisco employees and the predictive model you used, which you worked on in Chapter 2, to the executive team.

You open your computer and start drafting slides. But then, you recall the course you took on communicating with data. You feel that you are missing something. So you write down the facts you remember to build a compelling oral presentation.
- True

      - For the executive team, you should deliver a persuasive presentatlon to
        convince them to have salary ranges that are equal to the Industry
        average.
      - Plan to explain how the average prlvate-sector salary has Increased In
        the last five years because It helps you catch the audlence's attentlon.
- False

      - List at least five key messages that you want to convey to the executive
        team. This approach helps you determine the structure of your
        presentatlon.
      - Plan to conclude your presentation by lIsting all the detalls and
        Imitations of your work. Open for questlons concerning Improvements
        your work.
      - The plan for dellveringa presentatlon for flve members of the executlve
        team or the whole IT staff would be exactly the same.
# An effective plan!
Well done! You identified which statements were correct. Now, you know how to plan your slides on salaries for San Francisco employees. It's time to determine which sections you will include in your presentation.

Can you put in order the topics for the sections of your oral presentation?

- Order the presentation sections so that the first section should be on top and the last at the bottom.

        - Increase In prlvate sector salarles over the last 5 years
        - Analysls of software development salarles from different companles
        - Forecast salarles for the software sector for the next 5 years
        - Employees will be leavMing due to higher salarles on other companles
        - Company should offer compettlive salary ranges to retain talented staff
# Building presentation slides
`slides`
- one message per slide
- high contrast ***colors*** : improves readibility
- inclusive : use colorblind themes
- font : sans-serif
  - they give context on presentations
  - keep it short and big : so audience listens
  - don't dual point slide text
  - use color layering approach
  - highlighting works as well
  - headline if needed for plot
  - one message per slice / plot
