# Non-negative data
Which of the following 2-dimensional arrays are examples of non-negative data?

- A tf-idf word-frequency array.
- An array daily stock market price movements (up and down), where each row represents a company.
- An array where rows are customers, columns are products and entries are 0 or 1, indicating whether a customer has purchased a product.

Answer the question
50XP
Possible Answers
- [ ] 1 only
- [ ] 2 and 3
- [x] 1 and 3
# NMF applied to Wikipedia articles
In the video, you saw NMF applied to transform a toy word-frequency array. Now it's your turn to apply NMF, this time using the tf-idf word-frequency array of Wikipedia articles, given as a csr matrix articles. Here, fit the model and transform the articles. In the next exercise, you'll explore the result.

Instructions
100 XP
- Import NMF from sklearn.decomposition.
- Create an NMF instance called model with 6 components.
- Fit the model to the word count data articles.
- Use the .transform() method of model to transform articles, and assign the result to nmf_features.
- Print nmf_features to get a first idea what it looks like (.round(2) rounds the entries to 2 decimal places.)
```py
# Import NMF
from sklearn.decomposition import NMF

# Create an NMF instance: model
model = NMF(n_components= 6)

# Fit the model to articles
model.fit(articles)

# Transform the articles: nmf_features
nmf_features = model.transform(articles)

# Print the NMF features
print(nmf_features.round(2))
```
# NMF features of the Wikipedia articles
Now you will explore the NMF features you created in the previous exercise. A solution to the previous exercise has been pre-loaded, so the array nmf_features is available. Also available is a list titles giving the title of each Wikipedia article.

When investigating the features, notice that for both actors, the NMF feature 3 has by far the highest value. This means that both articles are reconstructed using mainly the 3rd NMF component. In the next video, you'll see why: NMF components represent topics (for instance, acting!).

Instructions
100 XP
- Import pandas as pd.
- Create a DataFrame df from nmf_features using pd.DataFrame(). Set the index to titles using index=titles.
- Use the .loc[] accessor of df to select the row with title 'Anne Hathaway', and print the result. These are the NMF features for the article about the actress Anne Hathaway.
- Repeat the last step for 'Denzel Washington' (another actor)
```py
# Import pandas
import pandas as pd

# Create a pandas DataFrame: df
df = pd.DataFrame(nmf_features, index=titles)

# Print the row for 'Anne Hathaway'
print(df.loc['Anne Hathaway'])

# Print the row for 'Denzel Washington'
print(df.loc['Denzel Washington'])
```
# NMF reconstructs samples
In this exercise, you'll check your understanding of how NMF reconstructs samples from its components using the NMF feature values. On the right are the components of an NMF model. If the NMF feature values of a sample are [2, 1], then which of the following is most likely to represent the original sample? A pen and paper will help here! You have to apply the same technique Ben used in the video to reconstruct the sample [0.1203 0.1764 0.3195 0.141].

Instructions
50 XP
Possible Answers
- [x] [2.2, 1.1, 2.1].
- [ ] [0.5, 1.6, 3.1].
- [ ] [-4.0, 1.0, -2.0].
```
[[1.  0.5 0. ]
 [0.2 0.1 2.1]]
 
In [1]:
sample_feature = np.array([2, 1])
components = np.array([[1. , 0.5, 0. ],
                       [0.2, 0.1, 2.1]])
np.matmul(sample_feature.T, components)

Out[1]:
array([2.2, 1.1, 2.1])
```
# NMF learns topics of documents
In the video, you learned when NMF is applied to documents, the components correspond to topics of documents, and the NMF features reconstruct the documents from the topics. Verify this for yourself for the NMF model that you built earlier using the Wikipedia articles. Previously, you saw that the 3rd NMF feature value was high for the articles about actors Anne Hathaway and Denzel Washington. In this exercise, identify the topic of the corresponding NMF component.

The NMF model you built earlier is available as model, while words is a list of the words that label the columns of the word-frequency array.

After you are done, take a moment to recognize the topic that the articles about Anne Hathaway and Denzel Washington have in common!

Instructions
100 XP
- Import pandas as pd.
- Create a DataFrame components_df from model.components_, setting columns=words so that columns are labeled by the words.
- Print components_df.shape to check the dimensions of the DataFrame.
- Use the .iloc[] accessor on the DataFrame components_df to select row 3. Assign the result to component.
- Call the .nlargest() method of component, and print the result. This gives the five words with the highest values for that component.
```py
# Import pandas
import pandas as pd

# Create a DataFrame: components_df
components_df = pd.DataFrame(model.components_, columns=words)

# Print the shape of the DataFrame
print(components_df.shape)

# Select row 3: component
component = components_df.iloc[3,:]

# Print result of nlargest
print(component.nlargest())
```
# Explore the LED digits dataset
In the following exercises, you'll use NMF to decompose grayscale images into their commonly occurring patterns. Firstly, explore the image dataset and see how it is encoded as an array. You are given 100 images as a 2D array samples, where each row represents a single 13x8 image. The images in your dataset are pictures of a LED digital display.

Instructions
100 XP
- Import matplotlib.pyplot as plt.
- Select row 0 of samples and assign the result to digit. For example, to select column 2 of an array a, you could use a[:,2]. Remember that since samples is a NumPy array, you can't use the .loc[] or iloc[] accessors to select specific rows or columns.
- Print digit. This has been done for you. Notice that it is a 1D array of 0s and 1s.
- Use the .reshape() method of digit to get a 2D array with shape (13, 8). Assign the result to bitmap.
- Print bitmap, and notice that the 1s show the digit 7!
- Use the plt.imshow() function to display bitmap as an image.
```py
