# ==> plain text files
## --> Read a File
```py
'''connection'''
filename= "file.txt"
file = open(filename, mode='r') # 'r' is to Read
text = file.read()
file.close()
```
## --> write to a File
```py
'''connection'''
filename= "file.txt"
file = open(filename, mode='w') # 'r' is to Read
text = file.read()
```
## --> print file

      print(text)
      # or
      print(file.read())
## --> context manager WITH
```py
'''allows other commands execution. Automatic closure'''
with open(filename, mode='r') as file:
     print(filename.read())
```
# Exploring your working directory
In order to import data into Python, you should first have an idea of what files are in your working directory.

IPython, which is running on DataCamp's servers, has a bunch of cool commands, including its magic commands. For example, starting a line with ! gives you complete system shell access. This means that the IPython magic command ! ls will display the contents of your current directory. Your task is to use the IPython magic command ! ls to check out the contents of your current directory and answer the following question: which of the following files is in your working directory?

- Instructions
50 XP
- Possible Answers
- [ ] huck_finn.txt
- [ ] titanic.csv
- [x] moby_dick.txt
### > display files in working directory

      # IPython SHELL
      !ls
# Importing entire text files
In this exercise, you'll be working with the file moby_dick.txt. It is a text file that contains the opening sentences of Moby Dick, one of the great American novels! Here you'll get experience opening a text file, printing its contents to the shell and, finally, closing it.

- Instructions
100 XP
- [x] Open the file moby_dick.txt as read-only and store it in the variable file. Make sure to pass the filename enclosed in quotation marks ''.
- [x] Print the contents of the file to the shell using the print() function. As Hugo showed in the video, you'll need to apply the method read() to the object file.
- [x] Check whether the file is closed by executing print(file.closed).
- [x] Close the file using the close() method.
- [x] Check again that the file is closed as you did above.
```py
# Open a file: file
file = open("moby_dick.txt", mode="r")

# Print it
print(file.read())

# Check whether file is closed
print(file.closed) # asking

# Close file
file.close()

# Check whether file is closed
print(file.closed) # asking
```
### > asking file closure

      print(file.closed)
# Importing text files line by line
For large files, we may not want to print all of their content to the shell: you may wish to print only the first few lines. Enter the readline() method, which allows you to do this. When a file called file is open, you can print out the first line by executing file.readline(). If you execute the same command again, the second line will print, and so on.

In the introductory video, Hugo also introduced the concept of a context manager. He showed that you can bind a variable file by using a context manager construct:

      with open('huck_finn.txt') as file:
While still within this construct, the variable file will be bound to open('huck_finn.txt'); thus, to print the file to the shell, all the code you need to execute is:

      with open('huck_finn.txt') as file:
          print(file.readline())
You'll now use these tools to print the first few lines of moby_dick.txt!

- Instructions
100 XP
- [x] Open moby_dick.txt using the with context manager and the variable file.
- [x] Print the first three lines of the file to the shell by using readline() three times within the context manager.
```py
# Read & print the first 3 lines
with open('moby_dick.txt') as file:
    print(file.readline()) # CHAPTER
    print(file.readline()) # [space]
    print(file.readline()) # actual line
```
### > read just 1 line in file
      # after with open as file:
      print(file.readline())
# ==> The importance of flat files in data science
## --> flat files
`.csv, .txt`
- `header` : first row (col names)
- `delimiters` : commas, or tabs
## --> packages to import flat files
- Numpy
- Pandas
# Pop quiz: examples of flat files
You're now well-versed in importing text files and you're about to become a wiz at importing flat files. But can you remember exactly what a flat file is? Test your knowledge by answering the following question: which of these file types below is ***NOT*** an example of a flat file?

- Answer the question
50XP
- Possible Answers
- [ ] A .csv file.
- [ ] A tab-delimited .txt.
- [x] A relational database (e.g. PostgreSQL).
# Pop quiz: what exactly are flat files?
Which of the following statements about flat files is ***incorrect***?

- Answer the question
50XP
- Possible Answers
- [ ] Flat files consist of rows and each row is called a record.
- [x] Flat files consist of multiple tables with structured relationships between the tables.
- [ ] A record in a flat file is composed of fields or attributes, each of which contains at most one item of information.
- [ ] Flat files are pervasive in data science.
# Why we like flat files and the Zen of Python
In PythonLand, there are currently hundreds of Python Enhancement Proposals, commonly referred to as PEPs. PEP8, for example, is a standard style guide for Python, written by our sensei Guido van Rossum himself. It is the basis for how we here at DataCamp ask our instructors to style their code. Another one of my favorites is PEP20, commonly called the Zen of Python. Its abstract is as follows:

Long time Pythoneer Tim Peters succinctly channels the BDFL's guiding principles for Python's design into 20 aphorisms, only 19 of which have been written down.

If you don't know what the acronym BDFL stands for, I suggest that you look here. You can print the Zen of Python in your shell by typing import this into it! You're going to do this now and the 5th aphorism (line) will say something of particular interest.

> The question you need to answer is: what is the 5th aphorism of the Zen of Python?

- Instructions
50 XP
- Possible Answers
- [x] Flat is better than nested.
- [ ] Flat files are essential for data science.
- [ ] The world is representable as a flat file.
- [ ] Flatness is in the eye of the beholder.
# ==> Numpy import
`Numpy arrays` : std for storing numerical data

      import numpy as np
## -- CUSTOMIZE IMPORTS
## --> np.loadtxt()
```py
'''do the connection to file and give DELIMITER'''
import numpy as np
data = np.loadtxt(filename, delimiter=',', skiprows=1, usecols=[0,2], dtype=str) 
data
```
