# ==> file types
## --> pickled files
- these are for some datatype formats you don't know how to store them
```py
import pickle
with open("pickled_file.pkl", 'rb') as file: # 'rb' read only, binary
     data = pickle.load(file)
print(data)
```
## --> importing excel spreadsheets
```py
import pandas as pc
file = "urban_pop.xlsx"
data = pd.ExcelFile(file)
print(data.sheet_names)

df1 = data.parse('1960-1966') # sheet name, as string
df2 = data.parse(0) # sheet index, as float
```
# Not so flat any more
In Chapter 1, you learned how to use the IPython magic command ! ls to explore your current working directory. You can also do this natively in Python using the library os, which consists of miscellaneous operating system interfaces.

The first line of the following code imports the library os, the second line stores the name of the current directory in a string called wd and the third outputs the contents of the directory in a list to the shell.

    import os
    wd = os.getcwd()
    os.listdir(wd)
Run this code in the IPython shell and answer the following questions. Ignore the files that begin with ..

Check out the contents of your current directory and answer the following questions: (1) which file is in your directory and NOT an example of a flat file; (2) why is it not a flat file?

- Instructions
50 XP
- Possible Answers
- [ ] database.db is not a flat file because relational databases contain structured relationships and flat files do not.
- [x] battledeath.xlsx is not a flat because it is a spreadsheet consisting of many sheets, not a single table.
- [ ] titanic.txt is not a flat file because it is a .txt, not a .csv.

      In [1]:
        import os
        wd = os.getcwd() # current directory = 'wd'
        os.listdir(wd)   # outputs the contents of the directory in a list to the shell.
        
      Out[1]:
        ['titanic.txt', 'battledeath.xlsx']
# Loading a pickled file
There are a number of datatypes that cannot be saved easily to flat files, such as lists and dictionaries. If you want your files to be human readable, you may want to save them as text files in a clever manner. JSONs, which you will see in a later chapter, are appropriate for Python dictionaries.

However, if you merely want to be able to import them into Python, you can serialize them. All this means is converting the object into a sequence of bytes, or a bytestream.

In this exercise, you'll import the pickle package, open a previously pickled data structure from a file and load it.

- Instructions
100 XP
- [x] Import the pickle package.
- [x] Complete the second argument of open() so that it is read only for a binary file. This argument will be a string of two letters, one signifying 'read only', the other 'binary'.
- [x] Pass the correct argument to pickle.load(); it should use the variable that is bound to open.
- [x] Print the data, d.
- [x] Print the datatype of d; take your mind back to your previous use of the function type()
```py
# Import pickle package
import pickle

# Open pickle file and load data: d
with open('data.pkl', 'rb') as file:
    d = pickle.load(file)

# Print d
print(d)

# Print datatype of d
print(type(d))
```
      {'June': '69.4', 'Aug': '85', 'Airline': '8', 'Mar': '84.4'}
      <class 'dict'>
# Listing sheets in Excel files
Whether you like it or not, any working data scientist will need to deal with Excel spreadsheets at some point in time. You won't always want to do so in Excel, however!

Here, you'll learn how to use pandas to import Excel spreadsheets and how to list the names of the sheets in any loaded .xlsx file.

Recall from the video that, given an Excel file imported into a variable spreadsheet, you can retrieve a list of the sheet names using the attribute spreadsheet.sheet_names.

Specifically, you'll be loading and checking out the spreadsheet 'battledeath.xlsx', modified from the Peace Research Institute Oslo's (PRIO) dataset. This data contains age-adjusted mortality rates due to war in various countries over several years.

- Instructions
100 XP
- [x] Assign the spreadsheet filename (provided above) to the variable file.
- [x] Pass the correct argument to pd.ExcelFile() to load the file using pandas, assigning the result to the variable xls.
- [x] Print the sheetnames of the Excel spreadsheet by passing the necessary argument to the print() function.
```py
# Import pandas
import pandas as pd

# Assign spreadsheet filename: file
file = 'battledeath.xlsx'

# Load spreadsheet: xls
xls = pd.ExcelFile(file)

# Print sheet names
print(xls.sheet_names)
```
    ['2002', '2004']
# Importing sheets from Excel files
In the previous exercises, you saw that the Excel file contains two sheets, '2002' and '2004'. The next step is to import these.

In this exercise, you'll learn how to import any given sheet of your loaded .xlsx file as a DataFrame. You'll be able to do so by specifying either the sheet's name or its index.

The spreadsheet 'battledeath.xlsx' is already loaded as xls.

- Instructions
100 XP
- [x] Load the sheet '2004' into the DataFrame df1 using its name as a string.
- [x] Print the head of df1 to the shell.
- [x] Load the sheet 2002 into the DataFrame df2 using its index (0).
- [x] Print the head of df2 to the shell.
```py
# Load a sheet into a DataFrame by name: df1
df1 = xls.parse('2004')

# Print the head of the DataFrame df1
print(df1.head())

# Load a sheet into a DataFrame by index: df2
df2 = xls.parse(0) #2002

# Print the head of the DataFrame df2
print(df2.head())
```
### > first parse xls before head()
