# ==> Introduction to APIs and JSONs
## --> Load JSON in python
```py
import json
with open('snakes.json', 'r') as json_file:
      json_data = json.load(json_file)
print(type(json_data)) # dict
```
## --> EXplore JSON in python
```py
for key, value in json_data.items():
      print(key + ':', value)
```
# Pop quiz: What exactly is a JSON?
Which of the following is NOT true of the JSON file format?

- Answer the question
50XP
- Possible Answers
- [ ] JSONs consist of key-value pairs.
- [ ] JSONs are human-readable.
- [ ] The JSON file format arose out of a growing need for real-time server-to-browser communication.
- [x] The function json.load() will load the JSON into Python as a list.
- [ ] The function json.load() will load the JSON into Python as a dictionary.
# Loading and exploring a JSON
- Load the JSON 'a_movie.json' into the variable json_data within the context provided by the with statement. To do so, use the function json.load() within the context manager.
- Use a for loop to print all key-value pairs in the dictionary json_data. Recall that you can access a value in a dictionary using the syntax: dictionary[key].
```py
# Load JSON: json_data
with open("a_movie.json") as json_file:
    json_data = json.load(json_file)

# Print each key-value pair in json_data
for k in json_data.keys():
    print(k + ': ', json_data[k])
```
      Title:  The Social Network
      Year:  2010
      Rated:  PG-13
      Released:  01 Oct 2010.....
# Pop quiz: Exploring your JSON
Load the JSON 'a_movie.json' into a variable, which will be a dictionary. Do so by copying, pasting and executing the following code in the IPython Shell:

Which of the following statements is true of the movie in question?
- [ ] The title is 'Kung Fu Panda' and the year is 2010.
- [ ] The title is 'Kung Fu Panda' and the year is 2008.
- [x] The title is 'The Social Network' and the year is 2010.
- [ ] The title is 'The Social Network' and the year is 2008.

            In [1]:
                  import json
                  with open("a_movie.json") as json_file:
                       json_data = json.load(json_file)
            In [2]:
                  for k in json_data.keys():
                      print(k + ':', json_data[k])
# ==> APIs and interacting with the world wide web
## --> What's an API
bunch of code that allows 2 software programs to communicate with each other
## --> connect to API in Python
```py
import requests
url = "https://asdasdas.com/"
r = requests.get(url)
json_data = r.json()
for k, v in json_data.items():
      print(k + ':', v)
```
# Pop quiz: What's an API?
Which of the following statements about APIs is NOT true?

- Answer the question
50XP
- Possible Answers
- [ ] An API is a set of protocols and routines for building and interacting with software applications.
- [ ] API is an acronym and is short for Application Program interface.
- [ ] It is common to pull data from APIs in the JSON file format.
- [x] All APIs transmit data only in the JSON file format.
- [ ] An API is a bunch of code that allows two software programs to communicate with each other.
# API requests
- Import the requests package.
- Assign to the variable url the URL of interest in order to query 'http://www.omdbapi.com' for the data corresponding to the movie The Social Network. The query string should have two arguments: apikey=72bc447a and t=the+social+network. You can combine them as follows: apikey=72bc447a&t=the+social+network.
- Print the text of the response object r by using its text attribute and passing the result to the print() function.
```py
# Import requests package
import requests

# Assign URL to variable: url
url = 'http://www.omdbapi.com/?apikey=72bc447a&t=social+network'

# Package the request, send the request and catch the response: r
r = requests.get(url)

# Print the text of the response
print(r.text)
```
      script.py> output:
    {"Title":"The Social Network","Year":"2010","Rated":"PG-13","Released":"01 Oct 2010","Runtime":"120 min"....
# JSON–from the web to Python
- Pass the variable url to the requests.get() function in order to send the relevant request and catch the response, assigning the resultant response message to the variable r.
- Apply the json() method to the response object r and store the resulting dictionary in the variable json_data.
- Hit submit to print the key-value pairs of the dictionary json_data to the shell.
```py
# Import package
import requests

# Assign URL to variable: url
url = 'http://www.omdbapi.com/?apikey=72bc447a&t=social+network'

# Package the request, send the request and catch the response: r
r = requests.get(url)

# Decode the JSON data into a dictionary: json_data
json_data = r.json()

# Print each key-value pair in json_data
for k in json_data.keys():
    print(k + ': ', json_data[k])
```
# Checking out the Wikipedia API
- Assign the relevant URL to the variable url.
- Apply the json() method to the response object r and store the resulting dictionary in the variable json_data.
- The variable pizza_extract holds the HTML of an extract from Wikipedia's Pizza page as a string; use the function print() to print this string to the shell.
```py
# Import package
import requests

# Assign URL to variable: url
url = 'https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&prop=extracts&format=json&exintro=&titles=pizza'


# Package the request, send the request and catch the response: r
r = requests.get(url)

# Decode the JSON data into a dictionary: json_data
json_data = r.json()

# Print the Wikipedia page extract
pizza_extract = json_data['query']['pages']['24768']['extract']
print(pizza_extract)
```
# ==> Twitter API and authentication
`tweets.py`
```py
# Create Streaming object
stream = tweepy.Stream(consumer_key, consumer_secret,
access_token, access_token_secret)
# This Line filters Twitter Streams to capture data by keywords :
stream.filter(track= ['apples', 'oranges'])
```
